# Getting started with Serenity and Cucumber

Serenity BDD is a library that makes it easier to write high quality automated acceptance tests, with powerful reporting and living documentation features. It has strong support for both web testing with Selenium, and API testing using RestAssured.

Serenity strongly encourages good test automation design, and supports several design patterns, including classic Page Objects, the newer Lean Page Objects/ Action Classes approach, and the more sophisticated and flexible Screenplay pattern.

The latest version of Serenity supports Cucumber 6.x.

### The DemoBlaze testing Project

This project contains tests for different scenarios in the e-commerce website https://demoblaze.com using Serenity BDD and Cucumber

### The project directory structure
The project has build scripts for Maven, and follows the standard directory structure used in most Serenity projects:
```Gherkin
src
  + main
  + test
    + java                        Test runners and supporting code
    + resources
      + features                  Feature files
     
```

## Executing the tests
To run the project, you can either just run the `CucumberTestSuite` test runner class, or run either `mvn verify` from the command line.

By default, the tests will run using Chrome. You can run them in Firefox by overriding the `driver` system property, e.g.
```json
$ mvn clean verify -Ddriver=firefox
```

The test results will be recorded in the `target/site/serenity` directory.

## Generating the reports
Since the Serenity reports contain aggregate information about all of the tests, they are not generated after each individual test (as this would be extremenly inefficient). Rather, The Full Serenity reports are generated by the `serenity-maven-plugin`. You can trigger this by running `mvn serenity:aggregate` from the command line or from your IDE.

They reports are also integrated into the Maven build process: the following code in the `pom.xml` file causes the reports to be generated automatically once all the tests have completed when you run `mvn verify`?

```
             <plugin>
                <groupId>net.serenity-bdd.maven.plugins</groupId>
                <artifactId>serenity-maven-plugin</artifactId>
                <version>${serenity.maven.version}</version>
                <configuration>
                    <tags>${tags}</tags>
                </configuration>
                <executions>
                    <execution>
                        <id>serenity-reports</id>
                        <phase>post-integration-test</phase>
                        <goals>
                            <goal>aggregate</goal>
                        </goals>
                    </execution>
                </executions>
            </plugin>
```

## Simplified WebDriver configuration and other Serenity extras
The project uses some Serenity features which make configuring the tests easier. In particular, Serenity uses the `serenity.conf` file in the `src/test/resources` directory to configure test execution options.  

### Webdriver configuration
The WebDriver configuration is managed entirely from this file, as illustrated below:
```java
webdriver {
    driver = chrome
}
headless.mode = true

chrome.switches="""--start-maximized;--test-type;--no-sandbox;--ignore-certificate-errors;
                   --disable-popup-blocking;--disable-default-apps;--disable-extensions-file-access-check;
                   --incognito;--disable-infobars,--disable-gpu"""

```

Serenity uses WebDriverManager to download the WebDriver binaries automatically before the tests are executed.

